PGC: Principal Galaxies Catalog number.
coords: RA and Dec formatted in hours, minutes and seconds.
objid: SDSS photometric object identifier.
specObjID: SDSS spectroscopic object identifier.
plate: SDSS spectroscopic plate number.
RA: Right Ascension in deg.
Dec: Declination in deg.
l: Galactic longitude in deg.
b: Galactic latitude in deg.
deVMag_g: g-band apparent magnitude from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
deVMagErr_g: error on g-band apparent magnitude from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
deVMag_r: r-band apparent magnitude from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
deVMagErr_r: error on r-band apparent magnitude from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
deVRad_r: angular r-band scale radius from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
deVRadErr_r: error on angular r-band scale radius from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
deVAB_r: r-band axial ratio from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
deVABErr_r: error on r-band axial ratio from a deVaucoleurs profile fit.
extinction_g: Milky Way Galactic extinction in the g-band.
extinction_r: Milky Way Galactic extinction in the r-band.
kcor_g: g-band k-correction from Chilingarian et. al., 2014 using g-r colours.
kcor_r: r-band k-correction from Chilingarian et. al., 2014 using g-r colours.
absmag_r: r-band absolute magnitude accounting for k-correction, evolution and Galactic extinction.
zhelio: observed heliocentric redshift.
zhelioerr: error in the observed heliocentric redshift.
zcmb: CMB-frame redshift using Planck CMB dipole.
SIGMA_STARS: velocity dispersion from the Portsmouth catalogue (Thomas et. al., 2013)
SIGMA_STARS_ERR: error on the velocity dispersion from the Portsmouth catalogue (Thomas et. al., 2013)
IDgroupT17: ID for Tempel et. al., 2017 group containing the galaxy.
NgroupT17: Total number of galaxies (including those not in the SDSS PV catalogue) in the Tempel et. al., 2017 group
containing the galaxy.
zcmb_group: Group averaged, CMB-frame redshift for Tempel et. al., 2017 group containing the galaxy.
M: Tempel et. al., 2014 morphological classification. 0 = unclear, 1 = spiral, 2 = elliptical (all 1 entries have been removed
already).
in_mask: Flag for whether galaxy is within the SDSS NYU-VAGC DR7 large scale structure angular mask. 1 means the galaxy
is within the mask, and so can be used for clustering measurements or comparison with the provided random catalogue.
nbar: Number density of SDSS galaxies per unit volume at the galaxy’s location. Units of h3 Mpc-3, used mainly for
clustering measurements.
r: log10(effective radius). One of the fundamental plane parameters. Effective radius has units of h-1 kpc.
er: error on r.
i: log10(surface brightness at the effective radius). One of the fundamental plane parameters. Surface brightness has units
of Lsun pc-2.
ei: error on i.
s: log10(velocity dispersion). One of the fundamental plane parameters. Velocity dispersion has units of km s-1.
es: error on s.
Sn: The weight given to each galaxy when fitting the fundamental plane. See Eqs. 16 & 18.
logdist: Mean of the logarithmic distance ratio distribution from a single FP fit to the full sample. Can be treated as the
Gaussian mean if logdist_alpha is ignored (but is not the skew-normal ‘location’ parameter). Equivalent to log10(dz/dH),
where dz is the distance to zcmb assuming some cosmological model, and dH is the distance derived from the distance
indicator.
logdist_err: Standard deviation of the logdistance ratio distribution from a single FP fit to the full sample. Can be treated as
the Gaussian standard deviation if logdist_alpha is ignored (but is not the skew-normal ‘scale’ parameter).
logdist_alpha: The “alpha” parameter of the skew-normal pdf calculated for each galaxy’s logarithmic distance ratio
distribution from a single FP fit to the full sample. Gives an overall skewness quite close to zero because the pdf for each
galaxy is close to Gaussian.
logdist_corr: Same as logdist, but from multiple FP fits as a function of group richness. This is the preferred measurement,
but zero-point calibration should be carried out at the group-level (i.e., by assuming objects in the same group are at the
same distance), not with individual objects.
logdist_corr_err: Same as logdist_err, but from multiple FP fits as a function of group richness. This is the preferred
measurement but see caveat above.
logdist_corr_alpha: Same as logdist_alpha, but from multiple FP fits as a function of group richness. This is the preferred
measurement but see caveat above.
